---
layout: page
title: FAQ
date: 2010-06-09 10:56:49
categories: []
tags: []
status: publish
type: page
published: true

---
<div>

This blog expresses my personal opinions, and not those of my current or
past employers.

</div>

**How do I keep track of Game Linchpin?** – I've often been asked "How
do I get automatic updates?" so I've written a nice simple to follow
guide on how to [Subscribe To Updates](subscribe-to-game-linchpin.html)
for Game Linchpin including Social Networks, RSS Feeds and EMail updates
too.

**May I republish posts from Game Linchpin on my own Blog?** – You may
not republish full posts from Game Linchpin without my direct
permission. You can re-use the add paragraph or two for non-commercial
purposes but all I ask is that you link back to this blog.

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 2.0
UK: England & Wales
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/uk/).

[![Creative Commons
License](assets/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/uk/)

Comment Policy
==============

1\. Comments are actively encouraged - they are as important as anything
I write myself. They add to the knowledge and community that we have
here. If you want to comment then you’re more than welcome – whether you
feel you are a beginner or an expert – feel free to have you say.

2\. I delete spam – My comment provider has spam filters in place which
automatically catch the majority of automated spam comments. However, if
any end up on here then I will delete them straight away.

3\. Relevant
leaving a comment on my blogs and want to point to a link on your own or
someone else’s site that is relevant to the topic then please feel free
to do so. This adds to the conversation and improves the blog.

4\. Irrelevant
link in it that has no relevance to the post you’re commenting on it
could be be deleted.

5\. I allow signatures in comments - I don’t really see the need for them
and see them as verging on the spammy end of comments. However, I
decided not to delete comments with signatures as long as the comments
were relevant and added something to the conversation. ie if you write a
comment that says ‘nice’ or ‘good post’ or ‘great blog’ or ‘try viagra’
and then leave a signature on your comment then it could well be
deleted.
