---
layout: page
title: SEO
date: 2011-04-10 23:47:52
categories: []
tags: []
status: publish
type: page
published: true



'1680000000'





click";s:30:"http://gamelinchpin.com/go/ppc";s:7:"website";s:37:"http://gamelinchpin.com/go/web_design";}s:4:"time";i:1422797909;} SEO Smart



description:












---
If you’ve come to this page, you’re probably a small business looking
for SEO services or for more information about SEO.

Many small businesses like yours can’t afford the SEO services of a big
agency, and don’t have the knowledge or time to do it on their own.

Our service gives you unlimited direct access to SEO experts,
comprehensive website analysis, on site optimisation and on-going
support at an affordable price

Why is SEO important to small businesses?
-----------------------------------------

*85% of online purchases start with a search*

Whether you’re a big or small business, if you have a website your
online revenues are dependent on traffic volumes. One of the best ways
to get traffic is to ensure potential customers find you on search
engines for keywords relevant to your business.

SEO stands for Search Engine Optimisation. SEO aims to improve your
natural rankings on search engines (as opposed to Pay Per Click) and
thus increase your traffic, and ultimately your revenues. Our SEO
process involves on-site optimisation (website structure, crawlability,
content, internal linking...).

If potential customers can’t find you on search engines, you’re missing
out on a massive opportunity. SEO is essential to grow your business
online.

### Why are we the right solution for small business SEO?

Our small business SEO service means you can enjoy no nonsense advice
and insight to help you improve your online presence and grow your
business online.

Our SEO experts will provide you with advice and guidance including a
comprehensive website audit, and information about all areas of search
engine optimisation.

We have already helped small businesses improve their search engine
visibility and win more business.

[Our SEO Packages](/search-engine-optimisation-packages-seo/)
