---
layout: page
title: Internet Terminology
date: 2011-04-10 15:39:38
categories: []
tags: []
status: publish
type: page
published: true



click";s:30:"http://gamelinchpin.com/go/ppc";s:7:"website";s:37:"http://gamelinchpin.com/go/web_design";s:4:"host";s:28:"http://ringalpha.com/hosting";s:6:"domain";s:22:"/hosting/domain-names/";s:12:"Domain
Names";s:44:"http://gamelinchpin.com/hosting/domain-names";}s:4:"time";i:1422698299;}





description:












---
We try to keep things simple and explain things in plain english but
sometimes the odd acronym pops into our language. Whether you're new to
the web or not sure about some new acronym we're here to help with our
handy list of Internet Terms and Acronyms.

If there's something missing, drop us a line and we'll help you out.

SEO - Search Engine Optimisation
--------------------------------

Search Engine Optimisation is the action of act of improving a websites
position in Search Engine Results Pages by making changes to the website
itself and the

PPC - Pay Per Click
-------------------

Paid for internet advertising Pay Per Click advertising is found all
around the internet. Advertisers make bids to effectively buy
advertising for keywords, such as "iphone 4", on the assumption the
viewer clicks on the advert and ends up on your website. Payments are
only made to the advert network such as Google Adwords when a viewer
clicks.

Conversion
----------

When a visitor makes a purchase or finds a target page on your website
(e.g., Contact page) they have been "converted" from a vistor to a
customer.

CRO - Conversion Rate Optimisation | LPO - Landing Page Optimisation
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Visitors to your website can leave at any point between the point at
which they view your first page to the point that they pay for your
product or click your 'Send Message' button.
 Improving the chances that your visitor "convert" can be achieved by
changing anything from colours on your buttons, words on your pages or
layout of your site.

Bounce Rate
-----------

You've worked on your SEO, you've got loads of back
sales aren't quite where you expect them to be.

If visitors don't find what they or expect or your content is too
difficult to find they will "bounce" from your website into the arms of
one of your competitors. Reducing the bounce rate can be achieved by
working on your website content along with a mix of landing page
optimisation.

Bandwidth
---------

A term used by web hosts to describe how much data can pass from the
server your website is hosted on to people visiting your web site. This
includes the files that make up your website as well as any data
downloaded from databases or media files.

ccTLD
-----

A country code top level domain name. These domain names are associated
with a country or geographic location e.g. .co.uk (UK), .fr (France and
.cn (China). The ability to register these domain names from another
country depends on the registrar's rules. For example, co.uk has no
restrictions whereas .it (Italy) demands you are based in Europe.

Domain Name System (DNS)
------------------------

The system that maps domain names to the corresponding machine's IP
addresses. This system is essentially a phone book that translates human
friendly names into computer friendly numbers. Because this information
is stored across multiple computers any updates to a domain (including
registration and ownership details) can take up to 48 hours to work its
way across all of them.

File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
----------------------------

Once you are ready to see what your website looks like online, uploading
the files to your web space is really easy and is often as simple as
clicking, dragging and dropping. The method you will use to get your
website online is called File Transfer Protocol (FTP). Don't be put off
by the name, all this does is take the files from your computer and put
them on to the web host's server for people to access. Simple!

In order to do this your web host may offer an upload function though
your account with them, but that means you have to log in every time. A
quicker alternative that most people use is FTP software. Some HTML
editors come with this built in (e.g. Dreamweaver & Microsoft Expression
Web) but even if yours doesn't there is the industry standard stand
alone (which is free) to download called FileZilla.

HTML
----

HTML (Hyper Text Mark-up Language) is the first layer of a web page and
deals with the content (the text, any lists, tables, quotes...).

LAMP
----

LAMP is an acronym used to describe a set of open source software used
by many people and businesses to save money and to prevent platform
lock-in.
 **Linux:** Operating system

**Apache:** Web server

**MySQL:** Database

**PHP:** Program

MySQL
-----

MySQL (owned and developed by Sun Microsystems) is the world's most
popular open source database. It is also part of the open source
software stack known as LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP).

Sub-Domain
----------

Sub-domain names are domains that are part of the parent domain name.
They are free to set up and can be useful if you have areas of your site
you want to categorise e.g.
 dictionary.domain.com, thesaurus.domain.com

TLD
---

Top Level Domain Names have no association with any countries and were
amongst the first to be created. E.g. .com, .net, .org.

Web Space
---------

The amount of space allocated to your website by a web host to store all
your files and data. The more web space you have the more information
you can store.
