---


title: Where have I been?
date: 2010-12-05 13:03:06



type: post

---
It's been quite a long time since I posted about Game Production as I've
been focusing my efforts on my new venture '[Ring
Alpha](http://ringalpha.com)' where I'm currently focusing on making my own video games and collaborating with other indie developers around the
world.

It's pretty obvious that the UK games industry has been in a massive
state of flux for the last 2 years and there's no sign of this slowing
down anytime soon. I've been caught in the midst of this shift and
personally suffered a few times this year but it's not stopped me yet.
Right now I have lost faith in the large traditional companies who are
really struggling to redirect their oil-tanker like ideas and my only
desire is to work with Indie developers right now.

We've seen the fallout from these changes and there have been massive
lay-offs this year as we've seen some of the UKs biggest developer close
their days and the upshot of this is that the job market is crowded with
lots of developers looking for fewer and fewer jobs. The failing game
developers have been left to rot before the vultures swoop in and pick
over the carcases looking for tasty morsels of IP and down on their luck
developers.

The makeup of a typical team means that production/management roles are
few and far between and what few there are have many applicants, which
of course means that salaries get driven lower and lower as it's
essentially a buyers market.

On the flip-side skilled, experienced programmers who can work onsite
are a rarity. There is opportunity out there if you can work hard and
find it.

On a more personal note, unlike most Production staff I have always kept
my programming skills up-to-date and I'm now taking advantage of this to
make my own games and collaborate with others around the world via sites
like [oDesk](http://www.odesk.com), [Elance](http://www.elance.com) and
[PeoplePerHour](http://www.peopleperhour.com). At the moment I'm concurrently developing games for iOS devices and also HTML5 and I find the experience invigorating and pain-free.

What I have witnessed and experienced by engaging with the global
development community is that the UK remains are very expensive location
to make games and if you're able to work with a global sparse team that
you direct accurately and manage efficiently then there are thousands of
people out there who can bring your game to life (me included).

All things said, 2010 has been a painful year for me personally but I'm
over it now and I feel like I've escaped the cul-de-sac of 'traditional'
game development and joined the mainstream, even though it's a little
belated.

So, it's back to work, heads down, making things happen.

Thanks.
