---
title: Avoiding Game Development Contract Pitfalls - Royalties
date: 2010-05-26 19:39:00

tags: ["business", "contract", "royalties"]
---

<div
style="clear: left;
float: left; margin-bottom: 1em; margin-right: 1em;">

![](/assets/soundexchangeartist.jpg)

</div>

Here at @simeonpashley we like to clear some of the fog surrounding the
more complex business of making games.

Negotiating contracts can be tough, and there's a lot to think about but
don't let some of the most important elements slip you by. Getting these
right can make the difference between scraping by and living well and
it's not easy if you lack experience but we're here to help.

I'll start by going through some common elements of royalty clauses.

\*\* \*\*

---

---

**I'd like to start out by saying always take professional legal advice
before signing a contract, the information below is my opinion only
based on experience.**

## Is it worth it?

YES! There's a myth that it's pretty much impossible to achieve
royalties on anything but the killer AAA multi-million selling items but
I've seen many cases where the route to success is often in being aware
of what options you have, and what to avoid too.

## Common Pitfalls

When thinking about royalties it's important to really think about all
of the different facets of the deal piece together as even the smallest,
seemingly irrelevant clause, can mean the difference between making
money and losing out completely. Keeping all the different elements
balanced is something that comes with experience.

There are a few things to think about but mainly always think about the
rate you're going to recoup the advance at and what you are recouping
against as misunderstanding these 2 elements alone can be the ultimate
killer.

### Recoup Rate

In this section I'm assuming that we're talking about a typical model
where the cash you're given to make the game (Advance) is recovered,
along with other costs, before you start getting any royalties on the
profit. This Advance Against Royalties is a common scenario but it can
be improved. Think of it as a debt you have to repay.

Now, this bit involves a bit of maths to understand the implications of
so I'll go slowly for you all. :)

Now, typical royalty schemes employ 1 rate that applies through your
agreement. In it's simplest form the publisher takes the money it gets
and allocates a portion of that cash to repay the loan they gave you to
make the game (Advance). When it's paid back you get the remainder as
royalties.

Lets look at a work example where the royalty rate is 10%, but this
obviously varies in real life.

The thing to watch here is the portion of the cash they use to repay
your debt (Advance), if this were your royalty rate of 10%, they would
need to make 10 times that amount (100% divided by your royalty rate)
before your advance is fully repaid and you get royalties.

Now, **there's no reason why the recoup rate cannot be different to the
royalty rate**. Lets imagine that you now have a recoup rate of 25% and
a royalty rate of 10%. Now the publisher only needs to recoup 4 times
your Advance before you start seeing royalties at 10%. This is a big
difference and really compounds over time.

In a typical contract, the 2 rates are balanced based on how the
negotiations with the 2 parties go. I have seen quite a wide variety of
values such
as:

- 20% recoup and 30% royalty
- 10% recoup and 10% royalty
- 75% recoup and 30% royalty
- 100% recoup and 5% royalty

I have even seen **1 extreme case where the Advance was written off**
and a low percentage royalty was paid. In this case the developer saw
royalties from day 0.

It is also possible to gain an agreement on hard unit numbers too once
you've worked out the nitty gritty of all of the parameters. E.g.,
instead of recouping your Advance at some rate, you start on royalties
once your game has sold 100,000 units.

If you can work this out upfront and **get the actual number of units
down in your contract**, then there's no variance or disagreement later
on and quibbling over what is/isn't recoupable against your advance.

### Net Receipts

Before I move on, I need to explain some of the core concepts. I'll
assume you know the difference between Gross and Net but there's a key
phrase typically used in contracts called "Net Receipts" that I'll try
and explain.

Net Receipts refers to actual bit of money left over after
**everything** else has been taken out. This typically includes
undefined, variable and uncapped expenses such as Marketing and
Retention / Returns.

**Marketing budgets** are incredibly hard to nail down as they typical
depend on prevailing conditions & rates, maybe there's a competing
titles that warrants more of a push for yours, maybe there's some
co-marketing deal being struck. The key here is to try and get as much
of this known at the start, there's should be some value attributed here
but try and get this defined or at least **try and cap the amount** that
goes against your royalties.

**Retention or Returns**
These terms refer to the amount of cash the publisher retains to cope
with unsold or returned stock. This figure is used to reduce the amount
your royalties are calculated against. There's not a lot you can do
about this but be aware that it's lurking in the background.

The rest of it should be self-explanatory but I'll happily respond to
feedback if I've missed a key component.

### Currency

This is something that's often over-looked in our world of global
development and is something to consider if you deal with a publisher
that holds it's accounts outside of your territory. It's worth noting
here that some big international companies may not have treasuries in
your native country so currency exchange will come into play.

Also, the time between you agreeing the contract and you eventually
getting paid some royalties can be a very long time and the financial
market changes rapidly.

There's a couple of things to investigate
here: negotiate the fees in the currency that gives you the best deal, in some cases it may not be the one held by the publisher or you.

Secondly, if the time frames and values are considerable then look into
Forward Exchange Rates with your bank, where you can get them to agree
on a future exchange rate.

### What you Recoup against

I've explained some of the elements that can massively affect the amount
you recoup against.
Recouping against undefined **Net Receipts** is a dangerous game and
one you should seek to nail down what the specifics are as above. Be
aware of everything you're getting yourself into.

I'd strongly advice always using a professional company like [TC
Associates](http://www.tc-ltd.com/) to exercise your right to audit the royalty accounts as pretty much every audit exposes inaccuracies in your
favour, sometimes a few thousand and have been known to be millions.

## Other Areas to Consider

One other area to consider is how your royalties are recouped against
items such as Bundle Deals and how they are affected by any potential
retail discounts such as 'Platinum' packs.

How will your royalties be affected by different distribution models
such as online or retail?

Will you be able to gain any royalties on sales of other items such as
downloadable content,  t-shirts, merchandising, social network apps,
etc?

## What next?

### Next Time

In this series I'll be going exposing another common contract point such
as Developer Technology and Intellectual Property.

If you've enjoyed this item, please join the conversation in the
comments, share this item with friends and subscribe to get the
next installment. I'm happy to answer any relevant questions you may
have that are posted in the comments.

### Further Reading

[Entertainment Law Handbook](http://www.sarassin.net/elh/index.html) - Sarassin LLP business affairs consultancy for the interactive entertainment industry.
