---


title: Why Does Redundancy Always Happen In Game Development?
date: 2010-08-26 12:16:28

tags: ["business", "career"]

type: post

description: Redundancies are a natural consequence for an independent studio when they finish a project. What happens when the project ships? What do all of these people do? As much as we’d like to believe that 100% of the team have meaningful work, it’s not going to be the case.
---
It’s worth understanding why redundancies are a natural consequence for
an independent studio when they finish a project.

Firstly, it’s important to understand that the end of the project is
always the point when the team is the largest, QA come onboard, people
are generally added to get the project delivered to a high enough
quality.

So, what happens when the project ships? What do all of these people do?
As much as we’d like to believe that 100% of the team have meaningful
work, it’s not going to be the case.
 With the best will in the world a studio will plan follow-on revenue
generating work but it’s incredibly rare that this work magically
dove-tails into utilising 100% of the available team, or even a
reasonable chunk of the team. Support work, patching and concepting
future projects may all soak up some people but all of this work is
still supported by the revenue of the game that’s now shipped and the
cash flow has likely stopped.

It’s quite common for studios to work for payments that are milestone
based and low margin so they can remain competitively priced and also
pay the wages but this money stops at the point of delivery. Some games
are developed against an advance for royalties that usually means the
game was developed for almost no profit on the basis of a big upside
should the royalties kick in.
 Publishers are generally not interested in paying for your team to idle
around between projects, they want to pay for the work only and even
then it needs to be competitively priced.

The danger is obviously the low and frequently negative profit margins
during development that don’t provide a buffer to get the studio through
the gaps between work.

Imagine you’ve made a generous 15% net profit over the life of the
project and you haven’t spent any of this money on other things and it’s
just sitting in the bank. The obvious extension to this is that if
nothing changes you can remain open for 15% of the projects duration
before your cash runs out and you’re bankrupt. So, if you’re project
took 9 months to make, you’ve got enough money to fund you through a gap
of 1 month. Using this example, **if the team is reduced to 25% of its
size then the money will last 4 times longer** for those that are still
resident.

In reality, it’s not that straight forward because there’s a lot of
other factors coming into play and you’ve now got a big team in place
and a lot of mouths to feed so you’re commitment is high. No business
operates in this way and net profit doesn’t go into the bank for a rainy
day. It’s typically used to fund other opportunities to expand the
business such as paying for over promising / under delivering,
concepting, attending conferences, preparing pitches, R&D and a load of
other things. Making people redundant also costs money too so it’s not
something a business can enter into lightly.

So, the natural conclusion is that a studio **can’t operate by employing
100% of the team 100% of the time** and support that entire
infrastructure when there’s little or no money coming in. It’s simply
not going to work.

The only sustainable way for single project independent studios to keep
this going is to operate on a **Core+Contract basis** where everyone
involved works on the understanding that the Core is a small set of
people that are central to the business and it’s buffered up with
Contract / Outsource work that is clearly only commissioned when it’s
needed. In this way everyone knows what their commitment is and there’s
fewer surprises. The non-Core people are typically more expensive than
permanent \*but\* it ultimately works out to be more cost effective once
you factor in the recruit/redundancy/gap costs. The team shrinks back to
the Core in between projects.

Sensible studios plan for all of these things and **build their business
with this in mind** and also build in some contingency into their costs
to enable them to burn some of their profits to keep a consistent team
running during the lean times. Larger studios can also mitigate this by
having multiple projects and moving people between projects as the
natural ebb and flow of project demands occur.

If you’re a work-for-hire/self-funded studio working for little profit
who employs 100% of your staff on a permanent basis then **expect
redundancies at the end of every project** and or the business
completely failing.

**As the saying goes**: Failing to Plan is Planning to Fail.

**As a business owner**, think about this when you're starting out as it
can make a real difference to the viability of your business.
 **As a developer**, look at the business you're working in for the
signs of whether or not your likely to be around when the project
finishes.
