---


title: 4 of the Best Spam Filters for WordPress
date: 2010-10-11 14:09:09



type: post

---
When a blog receives lots of comments, it is a sign that the blog is a
popular one among visitors. On the flip side, a blog with spam comments
looks unprofessional. You can either spend your days deleting all of the
spam that your WordPress blog is sure to receive, or you can leave the
majority of the work up to spam filters. There are a lot of options out
there for WordPress spam filters, but the following are some of the most
popular that you may want to try.

[Akismet](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fakismet.com%2F&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNERdOUh6KFyL9m7PGwix1gZhni_Ig)

Automatic Kismet (Akismet for short) is very well liked by all who need
spam blocked from their blogs. You can get it as a WordPress plugin or
you can go straight to Akismet.com to download this spam filter. Keep it
updated and you will enjoy a spam-free blog space. As Akismet gets to
know your site, it will be able to spot spam with even more efficiency.

[Bad](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.bad-behavior.ioerror.us%2F&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHOzYWGDyy3ePVAhgevVVu8PFXIiA)[](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.bad-behavior.ioerror.us%2F&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHOzYWGDyy3ePVAhgevVVu8PFXIiA)[Behavior](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.bad-behavior.ioerror.us%2F&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHOzYWGDyy3ePVAhgevVVu8PFXIiA)

This spam filter vows to slow the “flood” of spam by stopping them
before they even get sent. In their own words, “Bad Behavior also
transcends other link spam solutions by working in a completely
different, unique way. Instead of merely looking at the content of
potential spam, Bad Behavior analyzes the delivery method as well as the
software the spammer is using. In this way, Bad Behavior can stop spam
attacks even when nobody has ever seen the particular spam before.”

[Defensio](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fdefensio.com%2F&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNEGYlsqlJkYlPyGDPscgdnd9brnpQ)

Defensio not only acts as a spam filter, it also blocks malicious
content and filters profanity and unwanted URLs. This is clearly a
one-stop shop for creating a cleaner blog environment. Powered
by[Websense](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.websense.com%2Fcontent%2FThreatSeeker.aspx&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGAfhmbgSishdDtSrMjmIpbOFJ-wQ)[‘](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.websense.com%2Fcontent%2FThreatSeeker.aspx&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGAfhmbgSishdDtSrMjmIpbOFJ-wQ)[s](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.websense.com%2Fcontent%2FThreatSeeker.aspx&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGAfhmbgSishdDtSrMjmIpbOFJ-wQ)[](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.websense.com%2Fcontent%2FThreatSeeker.aspx&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGAfhmbgSishdDtSrMjmIpbOFJ-wQ)[ThreatSeeker](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.websense.com%2Fcontent%2FThreatSeeker.aspx&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGAfhmbgSishdDtSrMjmIpbOFJ-wQ)[](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.websense.com%2Fcontent%2FThreatSeeker.aspx&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGAfhmbgSishdDtSrMjmIpbOFJ-wQ)[Network](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.websense.com%2Fcontent%2FThreatSeeker.aspx&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGAfhmbgSishdDtSrMjmIpbOFJ-wQ), Defensio is supported by most platforms including WordPress.

[Spam](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fshwsite.org%2F%3Fpage_id%3D255&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGmg--c6J9itBW_YlovRawvGEdj3A)[](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fshwsite.org%2F%3Fpage_id%3D255&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGmg--c6J9itBW_YlovRawvGEdj3A)[Hitman](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fshwsite.org%2F%3Fpage_id%3D255&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGmg--c6J9itBW_YlovRawvGEdj3A)

This is a simple spam filter for WordPress, but the best part is that
you can decide on some of the details. For instance, if you think that
you might write about poster printing in your blog and you will say
poster printing 10 times but no more than, you can set the spam filter
to pick up a comment that says poster printing 11 or more times. Or you
can allow your regular visitor to always be able to comment, even if
they use poster printing 11 or more times.

Spam filters will save you a considerable amount of time and effort when
keeping your blog clean. Try out each of the above WordPress filters to
see which one works best for you, and then sit back and let your filter
do all of the hard work with blocking spam.
