---


title: 10 Incredible CSS Resources
date: 2010-07-09 14:31:01



type: post

---
CSS is becoming a very popular part of web design these days. Most
designers now offer CSS design as a part of their services, and even
amateur designers are learning all they can about CSS. The best part
about Cascading Style Sheets is that the pages load quickly and the
layout it very easy to change. So if you are looking for some tips,
tricks, and cheats for CSS, the list below should help you out.

1\. [CSS Level 2 Revision 1](http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/)

For those who feel they can tackle the technical language, this site is
the place to learn all you need to know about CSS. Those who are new to
CSS can still benefit from this, although it might take a bit of work.
Reading over the sections a few times, then attempting to complete CSS
designs, and then re-reading the instructions is a great way to become
familiar with the language. Just keep in mind when reading through this
site that it also gives instructions on how to use CSS for other media
designs, such as posters or brochures.

2\. [CSS Tutorial by
w3schools.com](http://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp)

If you are not interested in learning CSS by deciphering the technical
speak, this site is a great place for you to learn the basics as well as
some more advanced tips. W3schools.com also provides CSS colors, a
reference section, web safe fonts, and more.

3\. [CSS Reference by SitePoint.com](http://reference.sitepoint.com/css)

SitePoint.com provides a wide range of CSS references, including CSS
properties, selectors, AT-rules, concepts, and examples. This website
also has HTML and JavaScript references if needed. You can also check
out blogs, articles, books, kits, videos, and more while on this site.

4\. [50 Extremely Useful and Powerful CSS
Tools](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2008/12/09/50-really-useful-css-tools/)

Need some tools for your CSS design? Smashing Magazine provides an
extensive list of sites on which to find CSS tools. Plus, the
divided up into organized sections, making it easy to find exactly the
tool resources you need. Find CSS Typography, Online Tools, Handy Kits,
In-Browser Tools complete with Firefox Extensions, Coding and
Programming, Frameworks, Bookmarks, and Layouts in this very helpful
article.

5\. [Web-developer’s Handbook](http://www.alvit.de/handbook/)

This is an amazing site for both beginners and advanced users of CSS. It
has everything from getting your creative juices flowing to tools and
services to usability and accessibility. Although this website also
contains information for XHTML, JavaScript, and more, much of the
resources are related to CSS. So whether you need some daily reading or
CSS navigation menus, this is the place to go.

6\. [Listamatic](http://css.maxdesign.com.au/listamatic/)

Do you need some ideas or inspiration for CSS lists? Listamatic provides
plenty of
Plus, there are also some layout generators as well as a browser support
chart to help with your list design.

7\. [CSS Layout Techniques](http://glish.com/css/home.asp)

If you need some help making the switch to CSS layouts, this site will
help you out. The layout techniques listed are cross-browser and all
sites listed have been stripped down to their very essential codes,
making it easy to see exactly how a layout was created.

8\. [Position is Everything](http://www.positioniseverything.net/)

If you are frustrated by trying to figure out the browser problems
encountered with CSS design, this site will help to end your troubles.
The creator of this site, Big John, explains about common bugs found in
browsers as well as gives CSS techniques that work with any browser.

9\. [CSS Tutorials from Html.net](http://www.html.net/tutorials/css/)

This site provides free tutorials for building a CSS website. Plus, it
gives an explanation on how CSS works and what it is. Don’t want to wade
through English instructions? Choose to read the tutorials in your
native tongue with translation options that include Dutch, Arabic,
French, Spanish, and much more.

10\. [CSS
Layouts: 40+ Tutorials, Tips, Demos, and Best
Practices](http://www.noupe.com/css/css-layouts-40-tutorials-tips-demos-and-best-practices.html)

Another very helpful article from Smashing Magazine, the resources for
CSS layout found on this page are sure to contain what you need. Sample
page layouts, step-by-step layouts, best practices, templates, and more
can be found to aid you in your CSS experimentation and design.
