---


title: Early days
date: 2010-10-16 18:34:30



type: post


slider_style: sample.css
slide_redirect_url: http://ringalpha.com/blog/early-days/---
Over the last few weeks I've been ramping up my efforts to get my teeth
into all these prototypes I've got milling around, most of which are
linked from my homepage. They work but they're not really manageable or
agile from a development perspective.

### Prototypes

All of the prototypes exist in one form or another, most are in a
playable form but none of them are what I'd consider publishable so they
need quite a bit of work on them yet. They certainly don't have good
artwork that will come by me joining with a great artist nor the design
finesse that comes from playing the game and working with smart game
designers.

### Tools & Tech

I'm focusing on my tech & tools right now and I've tidied up lots of the
legacy bits & bobs, things I threw in just to test out if I liked an
idea once it was translated into something you could play. More formal
class structures, tidied up the interfaces and generally moved
everything towards C++ to enable me to move prototypes to other
platforms relatively quickly. I've also unified the common bits of code
into something that's more usable across titles, which was the aim going
forwards.

**Hardware**
 I code everything on a Mac Mini now and my PC hasn't been on for many
months. My PC is faster and I prefer W7 to OSX but it's also true that
it's a damn sight noisier, consumes more power and I can't make iOS apps
on it \*but\* I can do everything on a Mac. I never thought I'd be in
the Apple camp but needs must.

I did buy a cool bit of kit in the form of a [Synology DS210j Disk
Station
NAS](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B002U42XGI?ie=UTF8&tag=gamedevelcons-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B002U42XGI) with 4Tb of storage. It's cool because it's a little server; not only does doe the usual file serving, media serving it also has an inbuilt downloader (NNTP/Torrent/file) but I've also got it running a SVN server
too! How cool is that!

### Building a Series

My intent is to bring out a series of games, all of which build on the
experience and tech of the previous one. This not only shortens the
development cycle but it also means that core elements get thorough
field testing by real people like you as there's only so much I can test
myself.

So, I sit here feeling a bit happier that everything is consolidating
and I've chosen which project I'm going to bring out next so it's all
hands focused on that one for now.

### Studio needs a better name

Oh, I'm not too struck on the name 'Ring Alpha' either so I may change
the name at some point. The name was thrust upon me when I needed to
setup a UK legal entity for my work, which includes things beyond game
development so it needed to be something techy and unique, not strictly
games, not strictly IT, not strictly consultant like so I plumbed for
this. I do think I need a new name for the Game Dev bit though.

I'll keep you all updated on progress.

Simeon
