---


title: Javascript TreeGrid control
date: 2010-06-20 14:39:24



type: post

---**JavaScript TreeGrid control** aimed to organize and edit information
in grid, tree, or treegrid modes.-[Link](http://www.maxtreegrid.com/).

<span><span>10 things every good web developer should know –
[Link](http://jonraasch.com/blog/10-things-every-web-developer-should-know-2).</span></span>

Web Design and development process chart –
[Link](http://www.imageworksstudio.com/lounge/web-design-development-process-chart/index.html).

Web Design criticism – a how to – guidelines for constructive web design
criticism from Smashing Mag –
[Link](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/03/02/web-design-criticism-a-how-to/).

How to hire a great graphic designer – Business Insider War Room –
[Link](http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-hire-a-great-graphic-designer-2009-12#where-to-look-ask-around-1).

jbgallery is a UI widget webpage written in javascript on top of the
jQuery library. Its function is to show a single big image, multiple
images, multiple galleries, slideshows, as a site’s background, in a
“dialog” mode or as a common pop-up. –
[Link](http://maxb.net/scripts/jbgallery-2.0/).

30 web based applications useful for web designers –
[Link](http://www.mostinspired.com/blog/2010/04/27/30-useful-web-based-applications-for-designers/).

A web designer needs a good method for delivering designs. Instead of
using email attachments, PPTs and PDFs here is a fresh new way –
[Link](http://www.theclientspace.com/design-slideshow?v1).

jQuery news ticker – liScroll – liScroll is a jQuery plugin that
transforms any given unordered list into a *scrolling News Ticker*
[Link](http://www.gcmingati.net/wordpress/wp-content/lab/jquery/newsticker/jq-liscroll/scrollanimate.html).

Be a CSS Team
Player: CSS Best Practices for Team-Based Development

By Emily P. Lewis.
 “How many times have you picked up a project that someone else started,
only to discover that the creator’s original code is a mess?

Or you work with several team members, each of whom has their own
way writing code? Or you revisit a project you created years ago, and
you don’t remember what you were thinking?…”

<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/scriptjunkie/ff679957.aspx>

Forrst: Microblogging for web designers and developers – share pieces of
code, design ideas, prototypes and engage in feedback with the web
design community – [Link](http://mashable.com/2010/06/19/forrst/).
