---


title: Why you should use Minimum Viable Product game production
date: 2010-06-09 02:40:29

tags: ["lean", "mvp", "production"]

type: post
 and PC Games Video Games and PC Games Games and PC Games

description: 'How to engage your game players and maximise the feedback
loop: Change Game > Ship Game > Feedback > Change Game > Ship Game > Feedback'
---
The term **Minimum Viable Product** (MVP) has recently come to be used
in the world of video game production but what does it mean and how can
it benefit our games and the gamers themselves, including how to get the
feedback you need.

The phrase **Minimum Viable Product** is a product development and
release methodology pioneered by Eric Ries as part of a long series
about Lean Startup companies. Its main tenet is the development and
early release of only the core of your product, allowing the marketplace
to vet and feedback on its pros and cons. While the developer still has
a roadmap of their own, risk is mitigated as feature feature has an
already receptive audience and the product offering more tightly focused
when the core is released early and iterated upon often, in response to
real customer feedback.

[caption id="attachment_54" align="aligncenter" width="300"
caption="Minimum Viable
Product"]![](/assets/minimum-viable-product-illustrated-methodologist1-300x225.gif "Minimum Viable Product")[/caption]

Rapid Iteration
---------------

The **Minimum Viable Product** is dependant on rapid feedback loops and
is quicker these are the more successful the iterations will be.

This approach is wide spread on web-sites and browser games where the
game is effectively re-downloaded every time the game is launched, it’s
been used to great effect on games for iPhone to produce some great
experiences.

While it is possible to take on this approach for traditional console
games, their closed nature and long approval and release cycles can make
the feedback loop a very long process and therefore seem disconnected
from the community.

Get Feedback
------------

Of course, connecting and interacting with the community around your
game is absolutely essential and is likely to require specific community
management staff to be successful. I have been fortunate to work with a
great community manager and I have witnessed what a real difference this
can make, this is a skill that is not to be under-estimated.

You will need to offer simple opportunities for your audience to
feedback. It has to be trivial and caught at key moments to gain the
most valuable information. The closer the feedback loop is to the game,
the easier it is for the player.

As a minimum consider simple 5 star systems in the game, like iTunes or
eBay as they’re easy and trivial for players to give you a rating. Maybe
even some pre-defined phrases that help them communicate feelings such
as “Happy”, “Great”, “Slow”, “Dull”, “Exciting” or “More!”. Try and give
the player an opportunity for extended feedback via a short text box and
maybe hook them up with a backend web-site if possible.

### When to get feedback

Consider collecting feedback at key points in the game such as when a
player has finished all of the levels, tried a new character, tried a
new download pack, experienced some user generated content or even
uninstalled the game.

### Social Media – connect outside the game

Connecting with your audience via **social media warrants an article in
itself** but I’ll cover some basics here.

The old style way of interacting with “consumers” was to wait for them
to discover some forums you had lurking around somewhere, on a
discretely hosted web-site hoping they stumbled across them. Such forums
still have a valuable role and can gain some feedback that you really
need to know. A certain amount of “know how” is required to use the
forums and they typically contain dedicated gamers used to giving
feedback in this area.

The more modern way is to go to your audience on social media sites and
connect there. Good examples include [blippr]Facebook[/blippr] Fan pages
and [blippr]Twitter[/blippr] streams where people are likely to be
sharing feedback about your game anyway and you need to be there,
especially if you’re doing **Minimum Viable Product** production and
need to iterate your game.

### Metrics

You can take advantage of a connected game by collecting hidden metrics
within your game and reporting them back to a central repository, either
in real-time or caching them to be sent when it’s convenient.

Collect data from areas such as level start, level completion, game mode
selection, use of the abort/quit game, lives lost, time played, etc.
etc.

Analysis of global system metrics such as Achievements, Trophies or
similar can be used to discover how successful some areas of your game
have been. How many people have finished the game in under 5hrs? How
many people have collected all of the cars? How many people have played
level 1? How many people have booted your game (includes rentals and
re-sales)?

It’s possible and advisable to engineer some of your achievements /
trophies to bring this information to you automatically without the need
to write your own systems.

All of this is valuable information you can gain without asking the
player specifically for it.

### Use It!

Of course you need to use the information from you’ve worked so hard to
collect or the whole process is pointless!

Quit Early
----------

A **Minimum Viable Product** also allows for game ideas to be released
into the market to see how it responds, truly weak ideas can be
abandoned early and the developer can move onto something likely to be
more successful. It’s better to remove these failed attempts rather than
leave them hanging around unattended.

Of course, this isn’t an excuse for releasing poorly thought out and
dull games with a “*throw enough mud at the wall and see what sticks*”
approach as your reputation is attached to each connection you make with
your audience. The last thing you want is to be known for releasing a
stream of half-baked ideas.

Rapid Prototyping
-----------------

I would say that the **Minimum Viable Product** concept has been used by
many game developers for internal concepts and prototypes under the
banner “**Rapid Prototyping**”  where ideas are taken far enough to
demonstrate before a decision is made to change or abandon games at
review meetings during its lifetime,

Summary
-------

The development approach of rapidly incorporating feedback from your
audience is here to stay and the **Minimum Viable Product** concept
suits this well. Consider using it where possible in your game life
cycle for maximum success.

Further Reading
---------------

[Minimum Viable
Product](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product) – Wikipedia definition

[Eric Ries](http://www.startuplessonslearned.com/) – Eric’s website with lots of great information
