---


title: Using Odesk For SEO Tasks
date: 2010-07-07 14:32:40



type: post





description:






---
![](/assets/wpknock-odesk-logo-300x244.jpg)SEO or search engine
optimization is a technique used to rank up high in Google. Deciding to
hire a search engine optimizer is a big decision that can potentially
improve your website, as well as, help you save valuable time, money and
benefit your internet business further. If you’re thinking of hiring
freelancers to do SEO tasks such as link building and article writing,
then you may consider [oDesk](http://www.odesk.com/) freelancers. oDesk freelancers can provide clients with valuable service and it is advisable doing SEO earlier to get maximum benefits.

The best time to hire is when you’re planning a site redesign, or
considering to launch a new site. That way, you and your SEO can make
certain that your site is designed to be optimally search-engine
friendly from the bottom up. Also, a good SEO can help develop good
websites content.

Competent employees are considered lifeblood of any business and finding
those honest, hardworking and knowledgeable employees can sometimes be
frustrating. This is mostly true when searching to employ outsourcers.
Whether you are lucky enough to find a qualified candidate or not, you
have no uncertainty wasted with your much precious time and money. If
you are looking for a faster, easier and cost-effective solution to
finding competent outsourcers, then there is no doubt that you can find
them in oDesk.

First advantage of hiring an oDesk freelancer is you can definitely save
time and money. The most costly part of running any internet business is
its employees. This does not refer to their salary, but the cost of
finding them, training and retaining them. There are also other costs
involved like overtime, health care, office space and finding dedicated
individuals for certain projects. Using oDesk freelancers to create a
virtual workforce answers these problems and frees up your capital to
help manage your internet business.

[oDesk](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ODesk) can help you post job position and search through thousands of competent applicants. It also gives tests to make certain each applicant has the required skills needed to do the work required. You can look further into an applicant’s work history by carefully reading comments from previous employers and viewing previous work samples. oDesk has streamlined the interviewing and hiring process, making it simple to employ short-term, long-term employees or build a team of freelancers.

When hiring odesk freelancers, you can manage your team as if they were
working beside you. One of the main problems with hiring outsourcers or
any worker for that matter is making certain that they are basically
working and staying well-focused on task assigned. oDesk comes with
advanced technology where you can monitor your team’s activity on your
wide computer screen. Every minute that a certain task is being worked
on is as well, logged into the system giving you total control over your
staff, even more so than having all of them in the office beside you.

oDesk does charge a little percentage of the money you make to pay for
their valuable services. The quantity is stated when you apply to a job
and is included to your bid requested so you can glimpse what your
employers would pay in full if they hired you.

In terms of payroll, odesk has also done it very easy for you. The
difficulty of paying outsourcers is taken care of in one easy line. You
get well-detailed reports on each oDesk freelancer at the end of every
week and have the chance to object to any hours billed. If you are in
favor to all the hours billed, then payment is done through your credit
card or bank account that you specify. oDesk gives you total control of
your expenses at a touch of a button.

Using oDesk is simple and hiring qualified freelancers is easy and free
without the frustration you have come to imagine from seeking to find
qualified outsourcers. Setting up your own account will only take less
than five to ten minutes and you will certainly be on your way to
searching your next star employee.
