---


title: Can I Help You?
date: 2010-08-10 20:01:28

tags: ["business", "indie games"]

type: post

description: I can help you make a better game by providing feedback on your design or work-in-progress game.
---
I am frequently contacted by video game developers asking me for help in
a couple of areas, some just want some feedback, some are asking me for
financial investment to make their game a reality.

Maybe your one of these people, or maybe you'd like some critique of
your work?

I'm currently looking for 1 other developer to mentor and devote some
real attention to, should this be you?

 I'm happy to say that in many cases I provide assistance and make a
difference with their games and help re-direct them towards a more
prosperous future by providing them with not only advice on the games
themselves but also how to make them, what potential opportunities they
have for revenue streams and even help them find a publisher. Basically,
help out on which ever aspect of their game they need. The only bit I
don't do is actually make it.

In some cases my initial round of feedback can be hard to take as it's
always honest and open and what experience tells me you need to do to
make better games. It comes particularly hard when people start to
defend their position, which is partly to be expected and communication
is always good. Don't get me wrong, I don't know the magic formula or
I'd be making my own games but I do have a good insight into how to make
the most of what's there.

I liken some of my experiences to X-Factor / Dragons Den type of
feedback where the singer/businessman is obviously presenting something
really bad but they just cannot see that it's ultimately just not the
right thing to be doing. They won't listen and are adamant that their
thing is actually really good because their friends/family have told
them so.

Thankfully, most of my experiences have been entirely positive and
people do listen to feedback and we work together on making a better
game.

I'd like to point out that I also get a good set of games that are truly
great and demand some attention and are obviously destined for great
things. It's these that I particularly like getting engaged with as the
relationship is typically rewarding for both parties.

And sometimes, things are succesful despite everything telling you the
contrary.
 ![](/assets/jedward-fail1.JPG "Jedward")

#### Critique?

So, if you want to join the others and get honest, open feedback on your
game, be it a design or work-in-progress, then simply contact me and
I'll see what I can do. Please don't ask me to invest, because I'd
invest in my own games if I had the money. :D
