---


title: What can we learn from location based games?
date: 2010-07-06 16:00:10

tags: ["design"]

type: post

---
Location based games have really taken off in the last year or so and
they're only going to get better but do those ideas have to be
constrained to gps devices? Can you do location based game play on a
fixed console such as ps3?

For a while now I've enjoyed using the likes of SCVNGR, Gowalla and
FourSquare to discover new places and share tips. I've also enjoyed the
game side of these, in particular 4SQ badges and Mayorships.

For those that don't know about these the badges are much like
achievements or trophies you find on console and are awarded for doing
something extraordinary such as the 'Jobs' badge for visiting 3 Apple
stores or one for visiting a pub on a "school night" or one for
travelling on a boat+train+plane. Whilst these are using rewards were
used to seeing on consoles the potential of something like Mayorships is
interesting.

4SQ awards "mayor" status to a person who checkins in at a location more
frequently so you can become the Mayor of your local coffee shop, school
yard or bar. Retailers ace jumped onto this and some like Starbucks are
now rewarding their Mayors with free real-world incentives. Just turn
up, show your mayor badge and get free stuff. Imagine all those extra
visits the store gets from the mayor trying to stay on top and all of
the underlings trying to usurp the incumbent mayor. Genius!

### Fixed location ideas?

Many of the fixed games have expansive online worlds so why not bring
some of those ideas in there too?

Imagine how powerful a game mechanic this would be in a game?! Areas of
your game map can have the equivalent of a mayor, even tracks, levels,
bunkers, vehicles, avatars or anything else. Your mayor gets extra game
benefits that they're going to need to stay ahead of the thousands of
people trying to displace them.

Naturally the mayorship would need to decay over time to enable new
players to stand a chance and prevent someone being untouchable.

Both mayorships incorporate the social mechanic of recalling the
existing mayor if they're displaced to try and claim their seat back.

There are some fantastic things that we can learn if we continue to
explore all aspects of our world bringing the best elements into video
games. We shouldn't just look at other games and try and emulate them as
your naturally going to be 2nd best if you want to play that game.

(this is a mobile post)
