---


title: 5 Ways to Remote Test Your Website for Usability
date: 2010-10-11 11:12:16



type: post

---
The usability of your website can be measured to an extent. There are
programs that will test the usability or you can use people to test it.
Remote testing allows you to find trouble spots on your website so that
you can fix them. Let’s say that you have a website the specializes
in [brochures](http://www.printplace.com/printing/brochure-printing.aspx). You need to know if your users understand how to order brochure printing on your website. Otherwise, you could be loosing valuable customers with a difficult to use website. Here are few ways to remote test your
website.

**1. Have someone you know test out your website while you screen
share**

This can be a very good way to test your website usability. Find a
friend or coworker who is honest and helpful. Have them visit your
website while you are screen sharing and on the phone with them. As they
look over your website, ask them general questions that will help you to
see the usability of the site. Ask about their impressions while you
watch them click on

**2. Use an electronic test that will give you an idea of your
usability**

This type of unattended research will automatically read your website
and tell you where individuals will generally look and how you website
measures up. You can find many online tools that will measure your
usability in one way or another.

**3.**
[Usertesting.com](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.usertesting.com%2F&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNFnvcrheieaX74BzK7WchjuKRE0Aw)

Usertesting.com will give you results in less than an hour. For \$29 per
user, you will get a 20 minute video of that user making their way
around your website. They will also give you a written report along with
the video.

**4. Use forums to answer your questions about usability**

By asking other impartial users to test out your website, you will get a
good idea of its
usability. [Hackernews](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hackernews.com%2F&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNH9wRjIjUKww1H62pCIDSev0FqJvg) is a good place to get advice on creating a new website. You can also ask about testing your website there.

**5.**
[Silverback](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.silverbackapp.com%2F&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNEaoO73VKtp3sB06ixLkKoYFXx8Ww)
**for Mac and**
[Morae](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.techsmith.com%2Fmorae.asp&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHmUrsH8FUurn29KTqdD6Rbj-ymlA)
**for Windows**

Here are two programs that use gorilla testing techniques to help you
better understand your customers and how they use your website. They
record facial expressions along with clicks and other actions. Other
techniques they use are surveys and focus groups.

With one or more of these remote testing tools, you can make sure that
your business website is as effective and successful as it can be.

 
