---


title: Episodic Game Content Done Right
date: 2010-10-04 11:45:54

tags: ["business model", "episodic", "LinkedIn"]

type: post

---
I think there's a missed opportunity with Episodic games that are
currently being launched, they're largely just about delivering a known
experience over an extended period of time and splitting the costs
throughout each episode.

There's very little focus on the user experience and, more importantly,
the social experience that episodic content can repeatedly deliver.

I think they key to this is engaging everyone in a simultaneous and
recurring experience, like a TV show.

Imagine a chapter of a story driven game like Halo Reach being made
available for everyone to play at 8pm on the 1st Sunday of every month,
just one chapter, no-one can play it before that time so everyone
experiences the same event. It could even be that this chapter is only
available to play for a fixed period too, if you missed the event then
you've got to wait for a repeat or get yourself the box-set.

![](/assets/TVSchedule1.jpg "TVSchedule")

I believe this will generate much more exposure for the game where the
anticipation of what's in the episode and the discussions afterwards
make for a continued presence in peoples minds. Everyone would get the
time to savour the experience and look forwards to the next one, hoping
to share this with your friends.

A great side-effect of this is that it enables others to join the
experience and catch-up with the previous episodes with everyone lining
up at the next event.

It's completely important to give people and end-to-end experience,
i.e., a boxed off series with a compelling series ending. This gives
everyone something to share and builds to a great crescendo for your
idea.

### How would you make this happen?

I believe that a pre-sold box set, either retail or online, would enable
players to get their content ready \*before\* the content is unlocked at
a specific time. You have the content in your hands, it's ready, you
know it's going to be delivered to you over time so you can judge the
value.

This is a different position to making the game available for
download/purchase at a set time, this is about unlocking the experience.

iTunes has incorporated the idea of a '**Series Pass**' for TV Series
since 2006 with the exact model with series such as The Inbetweeners
being unlocked as they're aired on TV. It would seem likely that this
model will extend to games too.

![](/assets/Screen-shot-2010-10-03-at-14.04.20.jpg "Screen-shot-2010-10-03-at-14.04.20")

Steam have also been supporting this kind of pre-load and unlock for
years where they pre-download content to your PC so that the game is
ready to play at a specific time, no additional downloads or waiting is
necessary.

For other platforms, it would seem trivial to unlock the content based
on a live connection to an 'unlock server' instead of the obvious
unlocking at a set time based on your PC/phone/console clock.

### Bonus Extras

There's also the opportunity to engage your audience between events by
adding in the usual layers of Making Of documentaries and Developer
Commentary (Valve have been [embedding
comments](http://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Commentary_System) this since 2005). These extras could be made available to series subscribers to encourage people to take up the whole package.

### Benefits to your business

There is a middle-ground to be had here. As a business you could make
enough content to release but the whole series would be incomplete as
you'd be making the later episodes as you go along.

There are pros & cons to this approach.

It means you \*have\* to hit all of your production dates for the later
episodes or you risk breaking the series and therefore the experience
and we all know there's a lot of things that can go wrong. This risk is
mitigated by the length of your series and the lead time on your
episode, i.e., if you get 6 months worth of content in the bank before
you release the 1st episode then you're probably going to be OK.

One benefit to overlapping release & development is that you can start
to incorporate feedback into your episodes that are currently in
production and also use the revenue to keep your business going.

### Summary

I believe there's a great opportunity for well thought out and
specifically written games that maximise the potential of Episodic
content.

It needs a well written story that spans multiple episodes with the
emotional peaks & troughs to keep you coming back for more.

All of the pieces have existed for a while but no-ones really made a go
of it and I believe that the synced mass shared event is key to this.

It's not enough simply to make your game available to download at a
fixed time, the experience must be shared.
