---


title: Tips for Pricing Website Design
date: 2011-01-13 14:03:28



type: post

---
If you are fairly new to the website design business, then you may be at
a loss as to what to charge. If you charge too much, you may never get
any clients. If you charge too little, your perceived value can be lower
than your time is worth. In order to choose the right price for your
services, you will need to do a little research and make a few
decisions.

**See what others are charging**
 You can talk to other website designers in your area to find out what
they are pricing. You could also go to trade shows and converse with
people. Check out the Bureau of Labor statistics to find out what other
professionals are charging for services in your area.

**Figure out how much you want hourly**
 Decide on an annual salary that you can live with. Then choose a
realistic number of hours you will be actually working. Divide the
annual salary by the number of hours worked and you should have a
reasonable hourly rate. Before you set your price, make sure to check
with others in your market to see what they are charging.

**Dissect your services so that you can put a price on them**
 One way to come up with a good estimate is to determine how much time
you will be spending on the website design. To the best of your ability,
make a list of all the smaller parts of your project. Just as if you
were designing for poster or brochure printing, you need to gather
graphics, arrange layout, add text, and proof. Once you have this list,
you can estimate how much time each of those jobs will take.

**Include other possible costs**
 Add the different tasks together and multiply by your hourly rate. Add
10-20% to the cost for contingencies. Then include prices of graphics
you might have to pay for or any other costs. Just as with brochure
printing, there will be some pieces that you have to outsource. This
should be a pretty close estimate of your time and costs. It is always
better to estimate high. Projects almost always take longer than you
think they will.

**Don’t reduce your price to get business**
 The clients that want to pay close to nothing for your valuable work
will not be easy clients to work for anyway. As you build a name for
yourself, you will find clients who are more than willing to pay a
reasonable rate for quality work.

**Market yourself for a higher priced bracket**
 When you build a portfolio of quality of projects, your proven value
will go up. Utilize personal branding and clients will start coming to
you specifically to do work for them. Once you are in high demand, you
will be in a position to raise your fees. Until then, keep your prices
at or just below the average market price in your area.

 
