---


title: New Hosting service for mid-size eCommerce site
date: 2011-01-21 11:54:50

tags: ["ecommerce", "hosting"]

type: post

---
![Hosted Dell R410
Server](/assets/Dell-PowerEdge-R410-1U-Server-E5520-8-Core-2TB-4GB-DDR3-8XDVDRW-0908-13-server@11-e1295562432645.jpg "Hosted Dell R410 Server")

Ring Alpha recently provide a **server migration service** for one of
our ongoing clients, a **mid-size eCommerce store** with thousands of
transactions going through every day. The requirement was to improve the
performance and technical specification of their site ahead of Ring
Alpha providing them with a new eCommerce solution.

Lets find out what we did...

After a number of discussions with our client, it was obvious the
rapidly growing eCommerce business had grown out of their existing
hosting company and were in need of a technical upgrade that could cope
with their increasing number of customers.

### What's needed?

Our first task was to **evaluate what they would need** out of a **new
server** and **new hosting company** to enable their business to scale
over the coming months.

#### Discover the technical needs

The evaluation task itself involved **detailed analysis of how their
existing server** was currently performing at a low level to highlight
areas that needed improving. We checked out the server loads on various
areas and made our checklist.

The new technical spec was a **massive leap forwards** and critically
included 4 times the amount of memory and new hard-drive configuration
that improved the disk performance of 4 times too.

#### Hosting Partners

The next job was to make a **shortlist of hosting providers** that met
all of the requirements, one of which was that it should be UK based and
ideally local to the business.

#### Recommendations

We contacted our regular list of hosting partners, **negotiated improved
specifications and lower monthly costs** before making our
recommendation of 2 of them, which were a good match for this particular
job.

### Summary

**Our work has delivered an improved technical specification that meets
the needs of the business, all at a reduced price.**

Our experience in working at a low level with server and network
hardware, understanding the demands of the base level software like
Apache and MySQL, the higher level loads of the eCommerce software
matched with the needs of the business and their customers all rolled up
into Ring Alpha being able to find a new server and hosting partner
specific for this job.
