---


title: Job Interview Assessment Form Template
date: 2013-04-29 11:41:38



type: post

---
Back in the days of old, we used standard templates for a lot of company
documents to ease & standardise communication throughout the business.
Here's an example of a job interview form that was used to summarise an
interview and share it around the various departments who needed to know
various aspects. This document was often referred to through the initial
probation period.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Name of Candidate**

Jose Smith

**Date of Interview**

Thu 8^th^ May 2028

**Interviewer/s**

Stuart Programmer, Richie Programmer

**Role Interviewed for:**

AI Programmer

**Results of Tests [poor, average, good]**

**(please show your rating score if undertaken)**

C Test

Math Test

Java Test

Other

**Skills/Knowledge [poor, average, good]**

Pretty good; plenty of experience with a variety of games and platforms.

**Communication skills [poor, average, good]**

English wasn’t excellent, but he got his point across very well
nonetheless.  He was quite verbose and not at all shy about talking,
which is a good sign.

**In your opinion will the candidate fit in with the team i.e. team
dynamics?**

I can’t see why not.

**In your opinion can the company satisfy the candidates career
aspirations?**

He appeared to want to work in an English speaking country, which we can
certainly satisfy.

**Overall impression of candidate [attitude etc]**

 

 

He came across as someone willing to turn his hand at everything, but at
the same time concious of his limitations.  He has crafted AI systems
from scratch and likes to stick out projects to the end.

**Current Salary, plus bonus payments etc**

Was on approx £50K in Singapore

**Salary Expectation:**

£35-40K, with relocation expenses

**Candidates preference for Studio:**

Sheffield, he has Spanish friends nearby

**Period of Notice with current employer:**

 n/a

**Availability to start:**

Immediate (pending relocation)

**Will the candidates journey to work be long/difficult?**

 n/a

**Will the candidate require relocation assistance?**

Yes, this was asked about specifically.

**Overall summary of the interview:**

 

 

 

If I’m honest, the interview was hastily held (due to Jose turning up
unannounced) so there wasn’t the time to prepare appropriate technical
questions for him.  As such, we can only make an assessment based on
what he had to say about his roles elsewhere.

Given how much he has moved around over the past few years, I’d be
concerned how long he might stick around, especially if he’s dumped
straight onto a deathmarch project.

He will need relocation expenses paid.

**Suitability to be offered employment:**

\(a) Applicant not suited to the role.  I would not recommend for
employment (Give reasons)

\(b) Applicant on hold until further interviews have been undertaken for
this position

\(c) The applicant is a strong candidate however not suitable for this
position.  Should be considered for other roles if available,
alternatively candidates details to be kept on file for the future
(Please give indication of role applicant would be suited to)

\(d) The applicant should be invited for a 2nd interview

\(e) The applicant will do well in this role and I would like to
recommend employment - provide brief outline of proposal (salary, grade,
start date).

 **Please complete the Request to Make an Offer form(Intranet/HR/Forms)
and send for approval (cc to HR)**

Jose would add value to the team and the studio, bringing much knowledge
about building AI systems from the ground up.  I have a few reservations
about whether he’s an ideal candidate, but we have to take a few risks
to ensure we build up a solid team for the future.

I suggest we bring him in somewhere in the middle of his desired salary
range, offer to pay relocation expenses, subject to him repaying them
pro-rata if he leaves within 12 months, and have him on a 6 month
probation period.  He’d probably come in as a grade 8 or 9.  To start
early June.

**Additional comments from Interviewer on suitability of candidate to be
interviewed**

 
