---


title: Studio Policy Bible
date: 2013-04-22 11:32:00



type: post

---
Every business needs some policies to keep teams aware of everything
they need to know and working smoothly. Here's one of our old policy
documents that's a little skewed towards a game development studio but
most of it should apply to most types of business

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A central repository for all the bits of miscellaneous policy staff
should be aware
of:

1.   HR Policies
----------------

1.1.  Please see company general HR policies, available on intranet.

1.2.  Please note that your employment contract will also contain
details on certain policies (e.g. working hours)

1.3.  All holiday/unpaid leave etc. forms should pass up the line
manager chain before final approval/rejection when they are sent to HR. 
Project Managers may finally approve all holiday forms themselves,
without need for Exec Producer approval unless holiday is for more than
1 week in which case Exec Producer approval is still required.

1.4.  All recruitment forms should pass up the line manager chain before
final approval/rejection by the Studio Head

1.5.  All interviewees should complete an NDA and this should be
provided to Studio Head, or sent direct to HR, for filing

1.6.  Any information provided for purposes of advertising vacancies
that relates to potential clues as to the nature of the project or
identity of the client should be cleared with Studio Head before being
sent to HR

2.   IT Policies
----------------

2.1.  Please see company wide IT policies, available on intranet.

2.2.  New Starter forms should pass up the line manager chain but
 (assuming requirements within agreed standard range) may be approved
and sent to IT by the Project Manager (CC Exec Producer / Studio Head)

2.3.  Install forms should pass up the line manager chain but may be
approved and sent to IT by the Project Manager.  The Project Manager may
agree that Leads can approve install forms directly.

2.4.  All Purchase Requests Forms and Network Request Forms should pass
up the line manager chain before final approval/rejection by the Studio
Head

2.5.  Please note that Richard Heasman is responsible for switching and
storing back-up tapes under direction of IT, Richard will appoint cover
for when he is absent.

2.6.  All software install media to be stored by Studio Manager (staff
to hand over any install discs that are ‘loose’)

2.7.  Exec Producer(s) and Project Manager(s) will have IT helpdesk
accounts and be responsible for logging IT requests from their staff. 
Help desk accounts may be requested for other members of staff and will
be granted / withheld on a case-by-case basis.

3.   PR
-------

3.1.  All PR content (including draft material) to go through Studio
Manager on way to external or internal (i.e. other staff) destinations.

4.   Expenses
-------------

4.1.  When possible staff to seek confirmation from Studio Manager that
expense claims will be accepted in advance of spending money

4.2.  It can be assumed that reasonable travel expenses (e.g. standard
class train tickets or mileage) for meetings which staff have been asked
to attend will be accepted

4.3.  Both electronic versions and hardcopies, with attached receipts,
to be handed to Line Manager in advance of monthly deadline

4.4.  Line Managers to collate expenses forms and send on to their Line
Manager etc. until reach Studio Head who can actually approve expenses
and send them to Finance

5.   Absence / Lateness
-----------------------

5.1.  Should you be absent due to sickness or any other reason or late
for work (in respect to agreed working hours) you should telephone both
HR at head office and your Line Manager to inform them in advance of
your expected time of arrival

5.2.  Please note other general HR policies in this area

6.   Line Manager Misc.
-----------------------

6.1.  Please note Line Management policy separately available from the
Studio Head, this covers staff supervision and similar meetings.

6.2.  All Line Managers to ensure that on the first working day (or the
next practical opportunity) of each month that timesheet information is
provided to the Studio Head.  The nature of the information required
will vary from time-to-time and therefore Line Managers expected to
clarify requirements with the Studio Head.

6.3.  All Line Managers should appoint a deputy to cover their essential
duties during absence.

7.   Office Misc.
-----------------

7.1.  The last person to leave
must: ensure all windows are closed, turn off the lights, lock both locks on the door

7.2.  If you sign for any delivery, please get a receipt and give that
to Studio Head, also please email Admin and IT to inform them of the
delivery.

7.3.  Keep desks reasonably tidy

7.4.  Don’t ‘store’ food / drink etc. anywhere but in the kitchen

7.5.  Tea, coffee, sugar and milk will be provided by the company. 
Whoever uses the last of the milk will need to buy more (and claim cost
back via expenses until petty cash system established).  Everyone is
encouraged to pre-empt the potential disaster of temporarily running out
of milk by buying some when it is convenient.  Also please alert Studio
Manager if tea, coffee or sugar supplies are running low.

8.   Telephone
--------------

8.1.  Please answer the phone when it rings

8.2.  Say ‘ – how may I help you?’ or similar with appropriate upbeat,
professional telephone manner!

8.3.  Find out who is calling and check that the person requested can
take the call before handing it over (there is a C/Mute Icon button that
mutes the call!)

8.4.  Note, guide on how to use the phone system is on the studio wikki

9.   External documents
-----------------------

9.1.  Please send all external documents in PDF format

9.2.  All external documents relating to sales activity must be cleared
by the Studio Head and final versions filed

10. Confidentiality
-------------------

10.1.      Unless explicitly told otherwise please assume that all
information regarding company activity is confidential

11. Server
----------

11.1.      Only alter the contents of any network drive with permission
of whoever is responsible for that drive.  The exception being Temp
which is a free for all (within reason).  The Project Manager is
responsible for a project specific drive, New Projects Lead is
responsible for the New Projects drive, and the Studio Head responsible
for the General drive.

12.  Overrides
--------------

12.1.      The following policy from the Employee handbook is modified
as
shown:

**<span style="text-decoration: underline;">Game Play</span>**

At the discretion of the management the use of company machines and the
network for personal playing games is permitted during the following
periods:

-   Before 9:00 am
-   between 12:<span style="text-decoration: line-through;">30</span>45
    pm and 1:<span style="text-decoration: line-through;">15</span>30 pm
-   after 6:30 pm

Game Play during these periods must not interrupt any members of staff
working in the same area – use of headphones rather than speakers is
required.

 
