---


title: What Clients Want
date: 2014-12-05 14:54:31



type: post

---
A potential client calls and wants a website, as a web developer you are
more then happy to help. You show them your work, explain how your work
is better then the rest and sell the person on the importance of Web
Standards. Do you think that a client wants to hear all about Web
Standards? Most likely they do not. They do want to here how you are
going to make there website a success.

This does not mean that Web Standards are not important or that you
should not follow them and yes you should tell your clients that you
build websites using proper coding. But this is what they expect from a
web developer, otherwise they would be trying to build a website on
there own.

A web developer should be responsible for explaining to a potential
client what it takes to make a website successful before they pay for
your services. Many people still believe that all you have to do is
build a website and visitors will show up at your door begging to buy
your products. A web developer knows better and should make his novice
clients aware of this. No client should think that a website will be a
success without spending money on advertising. If you do not offer
advertising or SEO optimization to your clients you should be prepared
to recommend companies that do offer such services.

It is very important to remember that if a client's website is a
complete flop they will put some or all of the blame on you. Especially
if you did not explain the pitfalls of owning and operating a website.
On the other hand if you do promote there website or teach them the ins
and outs of promoting a website they will be a satisfied customer. Most
of my customers are referred to my company by existing clients and I
truly believe this is because we do not just build a website for them
but teach them what it takes to be an online success.
