---
title: How do you think?
date: 2015-01-22 20:21:59
tags: ["career"]
type: post
---

When working with other people it's important to consider how they see things, as their view is often very different from your own perspective. In our
world of game development there are, broadly speaking, 2 high level ways
of looking at things.

Firstly let me put things in perspective by explaining that I come from
a background of logic that took me in the direction of Programming,
which I found a good fit for me. I lived in a world of abstract
languages, numbers and weird concepts and the 'creative' people just
didn't understand. I arrogantly thought that anyone could draw pictures
and it took raw talent to do what I was doing. These were the days when
non-programmers were paid a pittance and weren't coveted by businesses.
Those were the days when programming skill made for better games.

<!-- more -->

At times it felt like Artists were from Venus, Programmers are from
Mars. Businesses used to segregate the two camps and have rooms of
programmers and rooms of artists, we were never a team working on a
single project.

Thankfully, it's changed a lot since then but the blinkered thinking is
still evident today when trying to put across concepts, albeit not so
overtly shown.

The creative side has now eclipsed pretty much all of the other roles in
terms of determining a products success and it's important for people to
realise that there genuinely are 2 fundamental ways of thinking about
dependant on the dominance of your Left or Right brain hemisphere.

Here's a nice concise definition take from
[Bloom](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Bloom "Benjamin Bloom on Wikipedia"), see if you can see similarities in your
thinking:

**Left - Creative thinking** involves creating something new or
original. It involves the skills of flexibility, originality, fluency,
elaboration, brainstorming, modification, imagery, associative thinking,
attribute listing, metaphorical thinking, forced relationships.

**Right - Critical thinking** involves logical thinking and reasoning
including skills such as comparison, classification, sequencing,
cause/effect, patterning, webbing, analogies, deductive and inductive
reasoning, forecasting, planning, hypothesising, and critiquing.

I'm not saying that your 100% one or the other, but I'm pointing out
that there are different ways of thinking and it can take some people a
while to realise this. This is an important skill for anyone rising
through the ranks to acquire as they interact with more and more people
and absolutely critical when you move up to externally represent
yourself, your business or your idea.

Team Leaders need to understand their whole team, not just the ones they
rose up through the ranks of.

If you're pitching ideas, you need to be aware of the types of people
you're talking to. Maybe they're looking at things from a different
perspective and you'll need to adapt.

Think about how all different types of people will experience your game
and get the most out of it. Maybe you want to focus your idea on a
particular type?

Does you whole business have a particular view that matches those above?
I've certainly experienced Highly Creative, Poor Tech teams as well as
teams that are Highly Technical but have Terrible Creativity.

It's important to understand the variety of people we interact with and
acknowledge that everyone has a different way of viewing things.

I'd love to hear about your experiences with businesses or people too.
