---


title: The Polarising Size of Video Game Developers
date: 2015-01-28 18:37:00

tags: ["business", "career"]

type: post



---
There used to be a time when developers of all sizes existed from small
bedroom teams up to hundreds of people working on projects and
everywhere in between. Developers of 40-100 people were not uncommon but
all that has changed.

At the moment there appears to be no middle ground, developers are
either large in house teams or small external teams. 30-40 people seems
to be the top end for an independent developer right now.

<!-- more -->

**Pico developers** are the individual making iPhone games in their
bedroom and becoming multi-millionaires over night.

**Nano developers** a handful of people making small games, iterating
them and moving onto new platforms.

**Micro developers** are the core teams of 10+ that expand and contract
based on the work available. Freelancers, contractors and outsourcing
are the norm here. Much the same as the film industry but without the
notion of the SPV to wrap each project in.

**Macro developers** are the likes of Foundation 9 or Kuju, that have a
complex mesh of small teams, each working on their own product but all
working together on a common aim. Business units are started and stopped
to maintain the equilibrium required for the stock market.

I found running a business of more than 30-40 people tough and
impersonal, all sorts of middle management are required to run the
business and there’s a constant demand for new work to fill in the work
that’s being completed right now. It’s easier to break it down into
multiple projects and sub-teams, all of which have their own management
structure.

I think the Micro developer model is the right one for today’s market,
expand when you need to with the right knowledge and expertise and keep
things simple.
