---
title: High WindowServer CPU load on Mac OSX Yosemite
---

My Macbook Pro was recently suffering from 100% CPU pretty much all of the time and it took quite a while to solve them problem and breathe life back into my workhorse.

<!-- more -->

**TL;DR** Disable _Little Snitch_ status in menu bar.

## High WindowServer CPU

My Macbook Pro seems to be suffering from high _WindowServer_ CPU use when my machine isn't really doing anything.

NOTE: During my investigations it appears that _WindowServer_ CPU typically rises when something on your toolbar updates often.

Here are the things I've tried, some of which come from other solutions posted around the web:

### Reduce transparency effects

(in System Preferences > Accessibility under Display).

This is the most highly reported solution to the problem but this didn't do anything for me.

### Switch "Displays have separate Spaces off"

(in System Preferences > Mission Control).

Switch Dashboard off. I don't use Spaces so this didn't do anything.

### Fix disk permissions, reset System Management Controller, reset PRAM

(https://discussions.apple.com/thread/6623697). Sadly, this did nothing but then again I do things like this as periodic maintenance.

### Switch off automatic graphic switching

(System Preferences > Energy Saver).
This only applies to systems with a dual GPU such as the higher end Macbook Pro 15" upwards.

### Turn off Skype

For me, Skype continues to be a constant drain on CPU performance and shutting it down did reduce CPU usage **but** this was it's own CPU usage, not _WindowServer_ CPU.

### Don't show seconds on clock

(System Preferences > Date &amp; Time > Display the time with seconds)
Reducing the amount of menu status bar update seems to general reduce load on _WindowServer_

### Turn off Little Snitch

Turning off the _Little Snitch_ option _Show status In menu bar_ massively reduced the WindowServer load for me!

Interestingly there's a note in their Beta channel about something related. I guess this could be causing the high load on _WindowServer_ too:

> When using OS X Mavericks (10.9) or later, Little Snitch Agent, Network Monitor, and Configuration should not cause the discrete GPU (“High Performance GPU”) to be activated anymore, especially on Mid 2010 MacBook Pro.
