---


title: Outsourcing Artwork for Better Game Development
date: 2015-01-31 06:18:50

tags: ["business", "outsourcing", "production"]

type: post

description: Guest David Tolley shares his best practice on setting up an outsource operation to maximise your game production.
---

Hi, my name is David Tolley and I'd like to share my many years of
experience and extensive knowledge regarding successfully setting up,
managing and working with art outsourcing teams for computer and video
games to throughout the world. Lot’s of practical experience in
delivering a wide range of art assets into game and managing external
teams. Anyone new to (or interested in) the subject of outsourcing
artwork for video game production should hopefully find what follows
interesting.

<!-- more -->

### Why outsource

When developing today’s content hungry video games, there are several
good reasons why choosing to work with external teams can be beneficial
for developers. Cost savings and scalability are well documented, but
increasingly the specialisation offered by some companies can be very
attractive, and a great way of acquiring quality content quickly.

Typically though, the primary reason for outsourcing is simply based on
the amount of work in-house teams can (or indeed can’t) handle; it makes
little sense to grow studio capacity during development only to have
artists sat idle through post production. Using additional art resources
as-and-when needed is cost effective and can be accurately planned -
saving money and overheads.

### Where to outsource

With videogame outsourcing, globalization is truly here. If planned
properly, the actual location of the contributor is almost irrelevant,
indeed in many cases it can be used to a distinct advantage. In some
instances project deliverables can be worked on ‘overnight’ and uploaded
to the client’s FTP ready for inspection the next morning. Any feedback
can be prepared during the day and is ready and waiting for the external
art team to come back online.

Generally, if an offshore studio can complete the work then the physical
location is not really an issue. However, the importance of face-to-face
meetings shouldn’t be underestimated because they can give a personal
feel to the work and a better understanding of the client’s needs.

### How you outsource

Delivering quality artwork into any game pipeline takes planning,
management and understanding to be truly effective. There are many
attributes involved, even when integrating even the simplest assets into
an existing project. Any art manager knows that if the procedures aren’t
clear from the outset then trouble lies ahead - and this goes double for
outsourcing.

It’s important to understand that outsourcing your game artwork is not a
magic solution, don’t underestimate the management time in dealing with
external teams, remember they are an extension to your development and
need to fully understand your project and processes if they are to
produce their best work. During development, internal teams are fully
briefed and well supported, so be prepared to spend the time with your
contributors - be open and available.

### Insourcing

This term basically means owning an offshore team, but managing the
studio as if it were in the UK (or wherever the developer is based).
Running your own cost-saving offshore studio can give a number of
distinct advantages, but really the chief gain is that the team is
working solely for the developer as a true extension to the UK studios.
Having an experienced team who are familiar with your tools and
processes is a major advantage in that you don’t need to retrain or
re-educate staff when moving to new projects.

### Is it right for your business

Assuming that outsourcing has been systematically chosen and is right
for the project it can be hugely rewarding and cost effective. It’s a
complex two way partnership which needs hard work, practice, support,
and above all, careful planning, but the benefits are clear. Papers are
available advising how to outsource, which cover strategies,
preparation, due diligence and management, but a really successful
outsource contribution will be driven by experience, passion and strong
support from internal staff.

A variation of this article was originally submitted to TIGA as part of
their Outsourcing and Offshoring article

### Need Help?

I’ve also written a number of articles detailing processes and pitfalls
concerning outsourcing - one of which is posted below.

Feel free to post any questions in the comments section below, I look
forward to receiving them.

#### Further Reading

[TIGA - Outsourcing and
Offshoring](http://www.tiga.org/Documents/Download05_FINAL.PDF) -
**External PDF**
 [![](/assets/TIGA.gif)TIGA](http://tiga.org/) is the trade association representing the UK’s games industry - **External Link**

**UPDATE - 22/June/2010**

[Outsourcing: A Little Checklist to Save You a Lot of
Hassles](http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/5872/outsourcing_a_little_checklist_to_.php) - A related Gamasutra article
