
Well, it's almost here, E3 Expo 2010 and it will be followed by many
other opportunities to get out there and
network: Game Connection,
Develop, Gamescom, and if you're lucky, Tokyo Game Show, etc.

Over the years, I've attended my of these events as both someone
pitching and someone listening to other peoples pitches and I have a few
tips to share.

By now, you've obviously spent a lot of time, effort and money
[carefully preparing](/2010/06/improve-pitch.html) your pitch and
[polished your presentation](/2010/06/improve-pitch-part-2-2.html).
You've no doubt booked a flight, hotel, got some spending money and need
to feed yourself and probably some clients too. Your team have packed
you off with some good wishes and are waiting for you to let them know
how it went. You may have family waiting on you too. All of this is a
massive commitment and you've got a lot riding on it.

### Start with the least important

When scheduling your meetings, try an schedule your least important ones
first; maybe even with some people that you're not interested in.

The reason is that it will give you some real-life experience of
pitching in the environment and enable you to debug you're pitch and
tweak if before you get to the big boys. This can be a good way of
weeding out problems with your demo, powerpoint deck, laptop, pointer,
screen brightness too.

You'll also get feedback that you can incorporate into your pitch, maybe
these are in the form of questions that you are asked that you can then
think about a really good answer for.

### Pick your slot

Be aware of the typical fluctuations in a persons attention span and
likely state.

I'd hedge my bets on the best time being late morning, just before
lunch.

Early mornings can fall foul of preceding heavy nights out partying or
jetlag. Try and avoid these is possible. If you get time, take a peek at
the party schedule and avoid the day after.

Afternoons are usually toughest, as people grow weary through the
draining aspect of running back-to-back meetings in hot, brightly lit
environments, battling against a lack of sleep and the onset of jetlag.

### Take Ownership

You'll be meeting lots of people and have a lot to remember, but, so
will the people you're meeting and you need to make sure you're at the
top of their pile when it comes to getting your game signed.

Firstly, be clear and concise in what you say. Make everything count and
don't expect anyone to remember everything you said.

Assuming you're pitch went well, you need to secure 2 things:

1.  **Get Their Contact details**. Make sure these are for the right
    person who you'll be dealing with, who may be different to the person
    you're presenting to, which leads on to...

2\. **How, when, where for you to follow up.** Try and get things
pre-defined, "lets have a catchup call next Wednesday at 3pm" is better
than "I'll call you soon". Aim to secure meeting dates too don't let
these slip.

Miss these two and you've just wasted your time, don't rely on the
listener to chase you, you can bet your last dollar that there will be
other people shouting louder than you and getting some attention.

If you find that the listener won't commit, then you can probably take
it as a sign they're not interested and it's time to move on.

> [the squeaky wheel gets the
> grease](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=squeaky%20wheel%20gets%20the%20grease)

### Dealing with rejection

Well, dealing with someone not being interested in your pitch can
sometimes be hard but don't take it personal. Try and find out why, the
listener will often be able to give you a good indication of what you
need to change before the next pitch. Take this as an opportunity to
adapt your presentation for the next person you meet.

There's a lot of reasons they make not take up you're offer and here's a
couple of non-obvious ones.

1.  **Pitch Went Bad**. Maybe you fluffed it, maybe you're laptop
    battery expired, maybe the listener got distracted with what they're
    having for lunch. There's no real answer here, sometimes it just doesn't
    go the way you wanted it.

2\. "we have similar titles in our portfolio" is a typical push off from
a listener and most of the time it's genuinely down to something that
already exists or something they have in development elsewhere.
There are rare occasions when they want to take your idea and make it
themselves, claiming this is something they had in production already.
This can be something as big as the game, or something as small as a
game mechanic.
There's nothing you can do about this except to expect it on rare
occasions. I've only seen this happen a handful of times across a 20yr
career and it's always heart wrenching to see.

### Do You Homework

You can be in a much strong position by doing your homework on the
company and person you're meeting beforehand. This will not only expose
any likely competition for your game but also enable you to come across
as interested in them.
All it takes is a bit of Google action to take care of it for the most
part.
People can be harder to find but I'd try
[blippr][LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/blippr) and
[MobyGames](http://www.MobyGames.com) as a starting point.

### What next?

I'll repeat this here because it's **REALLY IMPORTANT**!

#### Always get confirmation on next steps, try and arrange a follow up call / meeting, GET THEIR CONTACT DETAILS

### Perpetual Impression

As a little aside, remember that every interaction will persist through
your career as everyone moves around and over time the associate
producer you dismissed at a small publisher could end up being in charge
of acquisitions for a large international publisher later in your career
when you really need them.

> A buyer never forgets

**WARNING: Don't pitch if you're unsure. It's not worth it in the long
run.**

### Summary

Attending one of these huge conventions is an exciting and important
time, everyone always enjoys it and always has good stories to tell.
Although some of those stories should never be repeated back home. ;)
